The Republican party has gotten itself into a mess by allowing its conservative wing to take over. The centrist GOP politicians, and their agendas, have gone missing since 2000. <br/><br/>A "reform conservative" is an oxymoron. Conservatives are afraid of reform -- or change of any kind, really. Furthermore, to succeed, the "reform conservatives" have to abandon at least one of the three pillars of the GOP base in order to make the party palatable to centrists. Do they abandon the Libertarians and supply-side donor class? Do they abandon the religious fundamentalists? Or do they abandon the xenophobic white supremacists? The problem is, they need the votes of all three groups to be numerically competitive in a national election.<br/><br/>The party seems to be firmly in the hands of the donor class for now, but it is this group whose supply-side economic agenda is so inimical to the welfare of the American middle class. You can't "reform" a three-legged stool without toppling it.
I have a good idea! Let's take down the Statue of Liberty and erect a statue of Donald Trump! I'm sure he and his followers would love that! So much for the symbolism of America! 
Blustering vacuous  fool  Trump provides the perfect foil for the clown car of supposed GOP candidates for the presidency in the debates. If these aspirants can't handle this bloviating buffoon, then they're not ready.
Republicans welcomed the far right and ultra looney birds (sometimes the same thing) into the party years ago to win more votes. Well, those chickens and loony birds are certainly coming home to roost. 
I am for immigration conditional on 2 points - no welfare benefits to non-citizens and time to become a citizen should be changed from 5 years to 12 years, like in Switzerland.
Two thugs beat up old Latino man, quoting Trump as their inspiration to the police. Trump's response:"My followers are passionate. I love it!" This is the horror we are facing now. 
Is Donald Trump the new Barry Goldwater or the new Ronald Reagan conservative Republican?  Is the Republican dilemma one of the tenor and tone of their messengers?  Or is it the substance of the conservative Republican message that is their problem?  Is there a different conservative Republican solution to occupy the White House in contrast to the U.S. Congress?
Danny K:  "Middle class Republicans...don't want a government program or a government check."<br/><br/>----------------------------<br/><br/>Many middle class Republicans live in red states, most of which grab more from the federal till than what they contribute.  <br/><br/>You do the math, Danny.  
"Reform" conservatism?<br/><br/>Reform Conservatism, like  Compassionate Conservatism before it, is an oxymoron.<br/><br/>Conservative reformers, like compassionate conservatives, are the unicorns of politics: players in myths and fables but never seen or heard in real life. <br/><br/>The godfather and sainted founder of modern conservatism, William F. Buckley, Jr. famously stated, unequivocally, in his first issue of “National Review” (1955) that his conservative mandate was to stand “athwart history, yelling Stop.” Today’s Republican Party and other conservative outliers are simply obeying the godfather.<br/><br/>The most recent Republican reformer died 94 years ago. He is Theodore Roosevelt.<br/><br/>Simply put, today's conservatives really don't want to viewed as reactionaries.
Nope.  The Republican base is so stupid they have been taught to vote against their own interests.  The party has one prescription for everything- cut taxes on the rich. So lame.  And the predictable "investigations" of whoever the Democratic candidate.  Because they have no compelling platform to for anyone in the other 99%. Luckily the non-republican part of American isn't stupid.  See them next year, Trump or one of the dozens of wannabees.
It would help if Donald Trump actually knew something. While ranting that the objects of his unending contempt for people who know a thing or two, President Obama for one, Mr. Trump has yet to utter a phrase indicating a requisite grounding in matters domestic or foreign. He talks in ALL CAPS; high energy maybe, but without a semblance of substance about anything but his delusionally high opinion of himself.<br/><br/>If Mr. Trump's cause is advanced by "moderate" Republicans, the Party is in no better shape than it would be with Scott Walker, Ted Cruz or Mike Huckabee. Add to this Mr. Trump's declared desire for Sarah Palin to figure prominently in his putative administration, and we'd truly have an inmate-directed asylum.<br/><br/><a href="http://www.endthemadnessnow.org" title="www.endthemadnessnow.org" target="_blank">www.endthemadnessnow.org</a>
Reformocons, like other Republicans, want to eat their cake and have it.  Of course, they would claim that Nixon "deracialized" Wallace's racist appeals.  What they mean is simply that Nixon (and Reagan and the Bushes) found a way -- the famous Southern Strategy -- to issue racial calls to white people, encouraging resentment and fear of blacks, appeals that were utterly clear to white voters while foregoing open attacks on people of color<br/>.<br/>Racism remains the trump card (so to speak) of the last 50 years of Republicanism, and the G.O.P. remains unwilling to surrender it.  The supposed mystery and consternation "respectable" Republicans purport to feel regarding Donald Trump add up to nothing more than their exasperation that he's saying it out loud, when they know that you don't need to do that.  How rude of you, Donald!  
it's congenial to the ideationalist faction of the human species to believe that behavior is guided by ideas, by principles, by abstract beliefs.<br/><br/>evidence shows that people are more inclined to respect facts, to respond to facts, and to take facts as the starting point for decisions.<br/><br/>the fact is that the american political system is a parasite on the american system of government, and promises made by politicians are merely tactical concessions in the pursuit of greater leverage over routine administrative budgeting and opertations. <br/><br/>trump is neither conservative nor liberal, republican nor democrat. he's anti-establishment, anti-machine, anti-political. in that sense, bernie sanders would make his ideal vice presidential nomination.
Donald Trump may be "identifying problems that others have ignored" within the Republican Party, but the rest of the American people are well aware of the Democratic and Republican Party-engineered social inequality that has been the hallmark of the Conservative Era in modern American politics since the Ronald Reagan presidency.<br/><br/>That Mr. Trump is looked to as a "stalking horse" for Reform Conservatives speaks volumes about their philosophical and social perspective.
As a former lifelong Republican, I'm offended by the Party's apparent assumption that elections can be won if enough money is poured into campaigns, which has resulted in promises to donors that their campaign "investments" will earn fat returns in the form of lower tax rates.   
I'm afraid Barro's analogy falls apart, or if it holds, it's bad news for the Republicans.  Barroso has forgotten that while Wallace was a Democrat, Nixon, as of course, Republican, so anyone playing Nixon to Trump's Wallace would have to be a Democrat.  Or at least. An independent senator who caucuses with the DEms, say someone like Bernie Sanders. <br/><br/>And there are parallels between Nixon and Sanders, even if Bern has not previously run for President as Nixon did.  Both men are ideologically committed, in their own ways, who did not enjoy the support of party leadership but had the ear of millions of Americans the leaders took for granted.
Trump shouts what the GOP has whispered for a generation. 
On the sort-of "plus" side, The Donald hasn't called Mexican immigrants terrorists or agents of the Islamic State.  So perhaps we can put our guns down and talk about humane treatment of the Mexican immigrants who are an integral part of our communities.  
The Donald=The George Wallace of the 2010s
Solve world poverty in home countries.  Do not bring world's poor to the United States.  It would never work anyway.
David "Axis of Evil" Frum is a vocal and active part of the neocon cabal that took over the GOP a few decades back.  For those that do not recall, the neocon movement destroyed all that remained of true conservative values in the GOP, and replaced traditional conservative values with all-war-all-the-time, military contractors defining foreign policy, tax policies that serve only the plutocrats and oligarchs, and virtually unlimited spending of trillions in un-budgeted tax dollars for completely failed wars of opportunity.  Reform conservatism, indeed.....
Trump, despite his refreshingly offensive approach to politics, appears to be the most "realistic" republican candidate in the running.  While Cruz has long ago turned off all but the most rabid partisans with his extreme, bombastic and mostly nonsensical rhetoric, Trump has, by virtue of his personality and sales credentials, been able to reach most, if not all, socioeconomic groups with his "reform" type pitch.<br/><br/>Despite his outlandish position on illegal/legal immigration, Trump has had the common sense to at least acknowledge the tax system's inequities which grotesquely favor most of Wall Streets' least "productive" characters who malignantly leech off of society.<br/><br/>Sadly, his wildly inconsistent positions indeed reflect a a major flaw in his judgement. How else to explain his expressed preference for the likes of Sarah Palin and John Bolton in a Trump administration. 
People don't support Trump because his policies are perfect but because all the other candidates both Democrat and Republican are so poor.  The United States needs to significantly reduce all immigration and eliminate or enforce the laws.  Government waste has to be reduced.  We need to address the needs of the American people regardless of race or ethnic back ground.  Trump is the only candidate who comes close to these goals.<br/>Those who say we can't deport the 11 million to 30 million illegal immigrants simply don't care about Americans or American culture.
I have watched the GOP and FOX theatre presentation for a number of years but really must say that after waiting for 62 years Godot has finally arrived. 
This is a very good article. I am glad to see an article on the issues. 
Whatever happened to the Republican party of principles &amp; conservative values? Whatever happened to its adopted party platform?<br/><br/>Visual candy "trumps" tidy, sculpted verbiage, which is policy-making run amok.  Pundits are passe . . . 
The GOP seems to have transformed Jesus' "Take all you have and give to the poor" into "Let the rich take all that you have."
Where have you all been the past dozen years or so?  The GOP has already been at the bottom.  Trump is just speaking more plainly what all too many Republicans believe and try to hide.  -- And not only on immigration, but on so many other topics as well.
People who entered the country illegally are not 'immigrants.'<br/><br/>Are robbers who break into houses some new kind of 'guests?'!<br/><br/>These people never immigrated at all, they forced their way in against the desires of the people who lived there.  
Let the GOP reap what they've sown since at least 1980, choking on their own bile.  Nothing that conflicted, dying party has to offer will help the vast majority in the US. So far, only Sen. Bernie Sanders offers straightforward solutions for us. Go Bernie.  Let the GOP bury itself in buffoonery, bigotry &amp; bluster.
Who can trust the words of a "reform conservative"? Or even an establishment Democrat? Too often, the words of talking heads and our politicians are just mouthed in order to get votes. Their actions, if elected, do not carry through into policies that actually become law or are put into action. Do you remember Bush's "compassionate conservative"? 
He's the only alternative for those who are smart enough, to see that the rest of the other candidates, GOP and Dems, are a bunch of career politicians for sale to the highest paying lobby.<br/><br/>Unfortunately, he's the only one who is not in that category. 
Although there is much to dislike Trump, at least he has become the lighting rod to jolt the GOP in their smug assumption that they can continue in the destruction of the middle class ( forget about the poor! )and their blind allegiance to the 1% and the money-bags. He is voicing politically incorrectly what the devious GOP are really thinking. His surge in the polls is probably due to the base - Republican and Democratic. Who knows? He could be the George Wallace and Richard Nixon rolled into one. After all, he did go to Wharton and earned his Diploma, putting it to good use - for himself! He could perhaps extend it to the good of the entire country. He is not a college drop-out, a C student or a pastor. All we can do is wait and watch!
Reform for the Republicans means an agenda they agree with supported by someone with the guts to stick to it no matter what the cost. Trump does just that. What the Republicans are looking for is the bully in the school yard who can't be talked down, who will put the weak in their place, point out the losers, and make the disadvantaged work for what they get while taking what the privileged think is rightfully theirs. Make America great again means someone willing to tell the world what we want, willing to back it up with force.
The heart of the problem--for all of the nattering of nabobs like Frum--is that the GOP--at least as far as the political organization--is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the plutocracy, dependent upon the money those plutocrats provide, and the press coverage their coverage that their corporate-controlled media offers--in order to remain politically relevant.<br/><br/>The fundamental truth is that on every major issue facing this country--the position that Republican "establishment" really supports is opposed by a super-majority of the public.<br/><br/>They have become the party Lincoln warned of--constantly depending upon fooling some of the people all of the time.<br/><br/>What Trump has stumbled upon--perhaps like the pig that has found truffles while rummaging through the muck--is that in casting aside the rubbish that Republican pols, beholden to the plutocrats, must give fervent voice to, there is a pretty sizable swath of the base willing to embrace populists positions.
Of course not.  Will America elect this jerk Trump?.  Of course not.  Just the term 'reform conservative' is an oxymoron. The idea that conservatives are looking for government lite, tells one that these reform conservatives are really Democratic Hillary haters.  They are really extension of the 'give me mine' crowd. Will we be fooled?  Of course, the American electorate is basically stupid.  It is that simple,
The TEA party is not Libertarian, rather libertine. Good luck copying that. Further, the GOP has purged the likes of Richard Luger and Sam Nunn and and "can't find (their) way home." They made their bed, created their own out of control monster. No sympathy.
If we believe what all the talking heads tell us, that the Presidency cannot be won without the Hispanic or African American vote then all this Trump talk is moot.  I work with and have many Hispanic friends. I don't care if they are from Mexico, Columbia, Chile, Dominican Republic, and even Cuba etc.  They don't like him and even worse, they don't trust him. As far as the African-American vote, many feel the same way. And they are smarter than most of us and normally don't vote Republican anyway.  Just don't get that warm and fuzzy.  So, the Donald can bring on stage a few minorities and women, but bottom line is that he's not fooling anyone.  And as Sarah Palin says so eloquently, "when you are in America you should speak American."  Maybe the Donald should run for governor of Alaska. He may have a snowball's chance of winning.
Donald Trump is Sarah Palin with a comb over, aiming a crude and simple political primal scream at the Archie Bunker wing of the GOP. He's even opening his standard stump rant with the Dick Nixon's bromide: "The Silent Majority."  <br/><br/>Every election cycle, this group becomes more important in the Republican primary process, as the party grows whiter, older, and more stubbornly misogynistic.  As far as the presidency is concerned, I no longer see how they break this ugly and defeatist cycle.
“If Trump isn’t offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored, the hope is some more policy-focused, more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized,” Mr. Frum said.<br/><br/>So, David Frum is constructing a Republican Presidency based on "Hope?"<br/><br/>Where have I heard of such a platform before? And who has sneered at it?
It's crazy.  For all his bombast, Mr. Trump is somehow less offensive than his Republican opponents. The rest of the GOP line up is sickening.  They can quote scripture and wrap themselves in the flag, and talk and talk and talk, but they can't make me believe that they aren't in the pocket of the rich, doing the .01%'s bidding while trying to get the middle class to blame their problems on the poor.  
I like Bernie Sanders. I like Carson. I love Trump. The rest are blowhard charlatans. I'm certain Trump's numbers are far more robust than the polls currently credit him with.<br/><br/>- College-educated, left-leaning millennial working in D.C.
I hope you are wrong about Trump making a bad president. Because with 16 and counting running against him there is not a single Republican candidate who would make a better president. And it does appear to be a Republican year.<br/><br/>Maybe a meteor will strike the Reagan Library...
i think trump has demonstrated that the republcan base only really cares about putting down minorities. he has articuated the hatred and contempt that validates and motivates them, and they just don't care about taxes, foreign policy or anything else the party elite holds dear. this is the revelation: if you are explicit enough in showing hate, republican voters won't mind if you raise taxes, embrace healthcare reform, or say you won't rip up international agreements.
From what I see Trump's support comes from his anti-immigrant position, his disdain for the more "mainstream" Republicans (tapping the vein of discontent about what they haven't accomplished), and boorish yahooism. <br/><br/>Trump's "economic vision" is invisible, if it exists in any way at all.  <br/><br/>Trump is tapping the deep well of "throw the bums out," but will be an instant bum if he were actually elected.  
Trump's "apparent disregard for long-term deficits?"  Is that a misprint?
Hanging the Wallace label on Trump is the establishment's best hope. At the moment they have only to give him more rope. <br/><br/>I wonder why Nikki Haley isn't running for President.
So, a Canadian-American (immigrant) is railing against immigration! Seems like if you are white (and perhaps Jewish), and speak English like the rest of us, you have earned the right to be against immigration, like the rest of us!
He is the candidate for multi married cigar bar types who inhabit the NYC media world of Imus, morning joe, etc.  Welch, Rudy, Trump, Bo Deitl etc have regaled the misogynist sales person, accountant, IT analyst on the way to work my whole life and people with empty lives are impressed by their trips to Nantucket, Jackson Hole and their tales of Cristie Brinkley, Klum etc. It is meaningless and I am sickened by the medias coverage of this.  Pavolv's dogs may have turned down a treat now and then, the media turns down ZERO opportunity to cover this guy who if he got the nomination(he wont) will break Goldwaters record for lowest vote percentage.  Please stop it now.
“There were a lot of people who wanted to think the Tea Party is a straightforward libertarian movement,”<br/><br/>Not the same old racist rump? Not the heirs to the paranoia of the John Birch Society?  Not those who just heard of the Fed and have decided they are experts on global finance and crisis management? Not the usual association of bigots, paranoids and halfwits?<br/>They bear more resemblance to European parties of the ultra-right than to anything that could be called libertarian.
And how many millions in PAC money does Reihan Salam control? Because that's what counts in today's GOP. It's taken them 50 years to achieve this and they're not going to stop for the a short-fingered vulgarian on an ego trip.
“Reform conservatism is based on a recognition that the American economy has not served middle-income people well, not just since the crisis of 2008 but at least since the year 2000,” <br/><br/>Since the year 2000?  Why not since the year 1980.
Mr. Trump's campaign reminds me of the slick, new proto-type cars you see at a car show: sleek, high-polished, flawlessly designed, but mirable dictu, upon opening the hood, no motor...
Trump is a clown!  He is nobody's meaningful candidate! what a joke and how embarrassing for Americans  Why soes the New York Times write all about him but never mentions a real candidate that Americans are proud of, Sen Bernie Sanders!?
The Tea Party had their chance to be reform conservatives. Trump's the guy to beat now.
The staged Tea Party movement is utterly meaningless now that Trump has arrived to expose the truth about the Guns and Oil Party.
Donald Trump is what happens when a political party loses its mind.
The dynamics of their contrived movement is belated, disconnected and dubious at best.  If this so called "conservative reform" movement had integrity or even understood the gravity of the problem, they would realize it goes back to the at least 1980.  Finally if this was reform, why are the measures deny climate change and taking us back to past.  All I can see is the GOP is trying to polish their turd of a brand.  It still is all hands on deck for a sinking ship.
The Reform Conservative Movement, interested in "govt. programs for the "right" people". Isn't that exactly what we have seen from the GOP since Uncle Ronnie? Winners/Losers, Makers/Takers, with the right to decide who they are? An attempt to repackage the same old story.
Is Trump the Candidate Reform Conservatives Are Seeking?<br/><br/>No.<br/><br/>He's a vanity candidate who has benefited from that fact that polling organizations have lost the ability to produce accurate results. For other recent examples of bad political polling see Eric Cantor and Alison Lundergan Grimes.  Once Iowa and New Hampshire are done Trump will be too. <br/><br/>Folks in the media should be ashamed for believing these stupid polls are accurate and pushing the idea that Trump is at all relevant. What journalists should be investigating is why it isn't a crime to publish bad polling numbers.
At the risk of satire I'd say that it's a good thing that Trump overlpas some saner aspects of the GOP  #realDonaldTrump4carbontaxes
Like they say down in Tejas: "All toupee and no cattle."
It's certainly consistent with the evidence that many conservative voters are open to “government programs that help the right people": themselves, and people who look like them. 
Frum claims Nixon deracialized the crime issue. That's rich.  Southern strategy, anyone? Strictly racial, albeit slightly coded. Perhaps Frum the immigrant from Canada should restrict himself to spinning on Canadian politics &amp; the rightist glories of his PM Harper.
When it comes to ideas, the reformicons are just as mediocre as the rest of the GOP.  All of their ideas seem stale, stuck in neo-liberal ideological graves that are as dogmatic as 19C marxists.  
Trump has identified and exploited both sides of the Republican agenda: while he stokes the fear, anger and hatred  GOP leaders have nurtured among their constituency, he has concurrently exploited that constituency's growing mistrust of those same party elites. 
Thomas a Frank asked the rhetorical question: "What's the Matter with Kansas?" suggesting that the right wing base was voting against its own interests in support of the oligarchy. This is rooted in 2nd amendment paranoia that drives anti-government regulation. But there are many other areas where Frank's question pertains and the base is rising up. Donald Trump is the full menu from the Id of this base and is reflecting their organic agenda at the top of his divisive lungs.  What the GOP needs to do is find a sensible grown up avatar of Trump. Good luck.
Trump's ideas and personality are framed as political enigmas, his popularity as a political curiousity, his poll appeal as a reflection of anger at policies and Comgress, his whole raise supported by bias, labels, and myth--but the real force behind Trump is constantly missed: for many Americans (and many of tnese will not vote!) Trump provides comfort.<br/><br/>Comfort? Yes, indifference to niceties, open distain for others, ridiculing complex decisions, oversimplifying paths to success, and a magical thinking that likes crazy concretes--like the wall!<br/><br/>Comfort--neither progress or backlash--is central to Trump's appeal, like a beer and an easy chair. His fixations with money, looks, and ego is the best of our worst! For some alarming; for others a comforting thought!
The issue is less about candidates -Trump or Sanders and more about  “Can the reform be translated into policy changes and adopted politically” and “Can the policy change be converted to economic and social reform”?  The political reform requires structural change and the structural change begets resistance from powerful corporate and special interests group represented by 30000+ lobbyists.  Failure of Obama’s changing politics shows the power of the entrenched elites regardless of the presidency. A well-intended policy in the beginning would eventually succumb to and seduce by the temptation of greed and moral debauchment in Washington.
Donald trump is not presidential nor a republican. His trade views, his financial support of democrats, his tax puffery and many of his views which he claims have evolved are  not Republican. His personal integrity is lacking. He is a legend in his own mind. He is no Reagan as he claims. The Donald should break from the republican party and run as a Democrat for president. Then America can see Trump vs. HC while the Republicans can  agree on a nominee with the necessary accomplishments to be an effective POTUS.
Its somewhat alarming that so many pundits have gobbled up newsprint to assure us that Trump the emperor is wearing no clothes.Despite all the analysis that attempts to demonstrate that his proclamations are either racist<br/>inconsistent or antagonistic to deeply held American values he remains a spectacular phenomenon trumping his opponents
Any policy or approach Frum suppports is alarming. You have to remember his entry into US politics, as speechwriter for Bush in his disastrous first term.
What do you think about Trump?? Do you think he will be able to control America? Will he be a worthy leader?? Honestly I don't think he can do it. He's just a showman, who attracts people's attention. This does not mean that he will be able to manage the USA!
The only group that would see its needs met through a Donald Trump presidency is the constituency of the dim. One can sympathize somewhat with their plight: leadership of the country has for the most part remained among smart, albeit frequently misguided, people. Mr. Trump's followers believe it's time to give stupid a chance, and they know dumb when they see it.
That the epithet "reform conservative" has been created is at least an indication that there is a realization that some reform (a change that is intended to correct a situation that is wrong or unfair, or make a system work more effectively) of GOP policies is required.  <br/><br/>However, like the term "compassionate conservative", which indicated the existing varieties of conservatism lacked compassion, this will slowly be swept away by the paleo-conservatives, the fiscal conservatives, and the neo-conservatives who have no interest in serving the middle class. 
There are only three "reforms" the reformacons are interested in: 1) "reform" the tax code to assure that the income and wealth inequalitity gap in this country grows even larger, 2) "reform" our tattered social safety net so that it even fewer of the poor, sick, old, and disenfranchised can be caught as as the fall out the working and middle classes,  3) "reform" election laws so that blocs who traditionally vote majority Democratic or distribute them into majority Republican voting districts through gerrymandering to dilute their voting power.  <br/><br/>I believe that Brooks and Douthat are good and decent people, I just don't understant how they can hold such anti-democratic postures.
"...who has urged conservatives to adopt more creative solutions to address the weak job market."<br/><br/>No thanks.  We've seen what conservative ideas pertaining to the job market look like.  Since the beginning of official records on private sector job creation in 1939, an average of 60,044 private sector jobs have been created per month under Republican administrations vs. an average of 145,916 private sector jobs per month under Democratic administrations.  Conservatives loudly criticize Obama for his record on job creation, but since Obama took office, private sector jobs have been created 15 times as fast as they were under the last two Republican administrations.
So it takes a serial bankruptcy artist, snake-oil salesmen, reality television emcee and beauty contest ogler to identify the key concerns of the core:  us against them, give me a dignified job at a decent salary that doesn't exist anymore, and trust me.  Even more embarrassing - Trump is less obsessed with shutting down women's access to abortion, or imposing Christian Sharia-type law on the nation than the so-called - 'establishment Republicans' such as Bush, who think they can take in the Latino vote by rattling off a few mi casa es su casa quotes?  It's telling now that on the fringier right wing sites their pundits are refuting the post mortem 2012 recommendation that they find more ways to attract minority voters and women - solution?  Deport the voters who are against us or put in voter ID.  
Dream on "reformocons".    After 8 years of the Republican party's attacks on government; shut it down, gridlock it, stalemate it, obstruct it, poison the debate, vilify our president and the office he holds; they've completely forgotten how to formulate a legitimate political agenda.  How sad that the party's "thinkers" could actually make comments like these with a straight face.  You're admitting publicly that it takes Donald Trump to identify your problems and that you can only "hope that some more policy-focused, governance-focused competitor" will miraculously appear.   What ever happened to the RNC's autopsy results?  The spectacle of the current GOP primary with its mad-dog carnival barker and 17 accompanying circus acts puts a glaring spotlight on just how badly the Republican party has deteriorated.  It's not a pretty sight and it may be that the party's next post-election examination will be an autopsy indeed. 
This statement strikes me a somewhat encouraging: "...many Republican voters are not devotees of supply-side economics and are more interested in the right kind of government than in a simply smaller one." If this is indeed a "key argument," I am impressed and I will be even more impressed if it actually shows up amongst the agendas of any of the multitude of candidates.<br/><br/>This column  appears to offer faux encouragement to the Democratic Party voters. I'm not having any of it. We will find that the "reformocons" could very possibly be "reformorons" instead.
The so called reform conservatives are actually Republican shills of various sorts who write in, mainly conservative, magazines. You have a couple on this newspaper (Douhat and Brooks)  Their agenda is absolutely no different than that of the Republican party with all that implies and most of them have played a major role in implementing the often disastrous Republican agenda over the last 30 years (exhibits A and B: Frum and Brook on supply side or Iraq). However, being fairly intelligent they realize that this agenda has started to come back to bite the Republican party so the aim is to either put lipstick on the pig of Republican policies or create smoke screens to obscure their true intent. 
This note is a poor and diminishing point of view of American politics.<br/>There is no substance in Trump, just some erratic points by a narcissistic buffoon throwing some additional fireworks to sustain attention.<br/><br/>Bring Biden to the party, look at if from outside the US and the world will think we are trying to elect a circus leader rather than the president of the USA.  We will never regain respect abroad down this path.  Both parties can do a lot better than this.  In the meantime, both are being hijacked by outsiders.  The media should operate with higher standards too.
I know most of the people here are left-leaning, so let me educate you all about something. You can lump David Frum in with the rest of those who trigger groans from the Republican base like Jeb!, Romney, Huntsman and McCain. David Frum is another one of the out-of-touch Republicans punditry who consistently misreads what Republican voters are about and what they are looking for.<br/><br/>Middle class Republicans are most interested in economic prosperity. They want a good job with decent pay. They don't want a government program or a government check. Trump is the ONLY guy speaking to this. The rest of them  (both Democrat and Republican) for the most part are owned by Wall Street, Inc. That's why Trump resonates. Perhaps he's not the most respectable candidate, but he is the only one making these issues a priority.
"Reform conservatism" is a ridiculous notion, a movement comprising approximately four people who went to Dartmouth and labeled themselves "thinkers." The Trump voters, on the other hand, number in the millions, almost none of whom could tell you what the EITC is but are just rooting for he biggest gorilla to win. There will be no meeting of the minds here. There will only be snowballing bigotry and mindless hatred mowing down the ciphers appointed by the donor class to run the Republican Party.  As a Democrat, I thoroughly enjoy this. As an American, I wonder with trepidation how we all became captive to the agimg white fans of a reality TV show.
The American people are sick of seeing illegal aliens and H1B Visa workers depress wages and take their jobs for the benefit of the Chamber of Commerce.  They are also sick of watching all their tax dollars soaked up to accommodate people who believe that obeying the law and respecting our borders is somehow optional for them.
The Trump phenomenon is finally over, a fact that the press and the pundits haven’t realized as they still reel from their fumbling underestimation of his surprising success. Indeed, The Donald also misunderstood that foundation of his success, which led to his fatal miscalculation. Trump’s base has always been the conservative disaffected, those completely fed up with Washington and both political parties. That’s why he could rail against sacred Republican policies with impunity. While Trump acted as a true (not McCain-lite) maverick, he was lauded. As soon as he signed Reince’s well played pledge, he just became another mainstream candidate in his supporters’ eyes. In a few weeks, when the chatterers finally notice the changed tide they will attribute it to the Hugh Hewitt interview and subsequent missteps, but the turn came when Trump ceased to be his supporters’ champion outsider. 
It seems to that only America's most reliable news source is willing to print the truth.<br/><a href="http://www.theonion.com/article/frenzied-trump-supporters-admit-theyd-be-just-happ-51240" title="http://www.theonion.com/article/frenzied-trump-supporters-admit-theyd-be-just-happ-51240" target="_blank">http://www.theonion.com/article/frenzied-trump-supporters-admit-theyd-be...</a>
Seriously?<br/>First you expect me to take Donald Trump seriously (as a candidate, as a human being, etc).<br/>Now you expect me to take an article analyzing Donald Trump seriously.<br/>I can't!<br/>When will all this silliness end?
"Reform conservatism" has about as much reality to it as alien abductions and unicorns.  These people don't want "small government", they want government exclusively by and for a tiny elite, an elite dedicated to enriching and empowering a perpetually wealthy, inherited aristocracy, mostly by rigging the economy.  What these fake patriots want is a return to the economy of the plantation or the feudal manor, with themselves solely and perpetually in charge. The plutocrats behind the charade can't be reformed, but they can be taxed.
Day after day Cspan's Washington Journal takes calls from Americans who's mantra is: why are these people allowed to come here and take our jobs?  There seems to be nothing you can do to impress the historical facts of migrant workers in the United States upon contemporary citizens here.  History seems beyond their grasp.  The facts surrounding what kind of jobs are being done, when they are being done, who's done them in the past and why seems to be lost on Americans either unwilling to venture into the realm of fact or just favoring a position of ignorance as an easy option.<br/>Donald Trump supplies easy alternatives to facts and a simple approach people can visualize, such as a line of illegals being horsewhipped back to where they came.  Trump supplies base bottom visuals for those without ability or desire to consider reality and choose a cartoon image over lots of pages in a book.
Immigration in not now, and has never been the problem. The problem has been the insatiable greed of the Republican and Democrat oligarchs who chose to ship millions of American jobs overseas, to places where they could pay subsistence wages. And their continuing ability, through their ownership of, say, Walmart, to pay the lowest possible wages here, and tax the American middle class to subsidize their employees.<br/><br/>Their mantra is now, and always will be, privatize the gains, socialize the losses, and use the middle class to do it.
Yeah right.  Just because a few conservatives with media access see their party heading for a steep cliff doesn't mean they have a following at all.  See any voters following these white male pundits which quite frankly are a dime a dozen?  No me neither.  A couple of partly cogent people trying to expand their electorate does not a constituency make.
Reform conservatives will have to get more assertive within their own party. As it stands now, the Republican Party, in my view, is a wholly owned subsidiary of corporate, private and special interests and will remain so until time and changing voter preferences replace its current legislative agenda and the office holders who stand for it. Tea Party outrage serves only to disrupt and is not a coherent legislative tool. Republicans will have to learn to stop thinking of themselves as the fan base of some kind of sports/entertainment franchise and actually consider what they are voting for.
Reihan Salam (the editor of National Review) says "a lot of people..wanted to think the Tea Party was a straightforward libertarian movement". Even more people saw it as a not-so-subtle racist movement and that would make Reihan the skunk at their party. If Frum and Salam are interested in a party that advocates for workers and the middle class they can take the hard road (reform Conservatives) or the easy path (vote Democratic). I suppose the latter would mean giving up their future employment opportunities, and therefore they'll continue on the road to cognitive dissonance. 
Trump and Sanders are the only two candidates who clearly state what they believe, what their program is, and what they're going to do in office.   It may be totally wrong-headed, and I believe it is in both cases, but it is something.<br/><br/>Now look at the other candidates: vague drivel.  Vote for me because I'm an experienced governor, vote for me because I'm a woman, vote for me because my grandpa was a coal miner.   Voters are tired of this, they are looking for specific proposals about what to do.   Jeb Bush is the perfect case: he cannot answer simple questions about basic policy issues.   He doesn't know what his  position is.   No wonder Trump gets so many supporters on the right, and Sanders gets so many supporters on the left.
The thing about the one time wealth tax to pay down the national debt is, those who pay the tax would be beneficiaries.   First, the direct result would be the Federal government infusing the money back to those who invested in Treasury debt instruments, so the investor class would get the money right back.   Second, that money would have to be invested.  With no Treasuries to buy, the stock market would likely boom, going up more than enough to offset the amount of tax exacted.<br/><br/>Third, with the government relieved of its obligations to pay interest, that money would be available for federal capital spending, improvement of Social Security and Medicare, and, even, some cuts to income taxes.<br/><br/>It would be a haircut for the wealthy that would not hurt them at all.
He's taking Democrats with him too. Not only is  he for bringing jobs back to the USA, he's also his own man. He refused to appear at the Kochs political forum which he called a "beg-a-thon." The NYT doesn't like that? How about his support for women's health? No credit for that either. He has cleverly used the issue of immigration to attract Tea Party conservatives who for the first seem to realize that they can't have everything they want but must prioritize what is most important to them. Unfortunately it's a lesson the shrill bluestockings of the NYT have yet  to learn. By the force of his personality and his disdain for tiresome political correctness he has ignited the electorate as no one else has Democrat or Republican.
"Americans strongly support an earned path to citizenship for immigrants,"  If you are talking about legal immigrants, then yes, that is true.  If you are talking about illegal aliens, then that is not true, not by a long shot.  Americans were disgusted when Obama unilaterally, and illegally, granted amnesty to millions of illegal aliens.  He blew up any chance of getting bipartisan immigration reform with that action.  Obama poisoned the debate, not Trump.  Trump is merely reflecting the views of a majority of Americans, who want illegal immigration stopped once and for all.
This editorial is a perfect example of why this paper has lost all credibility and deteriorated into a left wing rag.  To keep inferring that "immigrants" are being scapegoated by people not as "forward-thinking" as those running NYC and CA is just plain nonsense.  Illegal immigrants are not the same as immigrants, and pretending that there is no difference does not make it so.
Alog the unknown wilds of the upper west side of Manhatten Island, the huddled elites have no idea of anyone losing a job to Mr. Obama's 7 million immigrants, legal or otherwise. <br/><br/>But in the U.S. the statistics are that every job created this century has gone to an immigrant. I.e., for the American worker, he has been moving backwards since the Clinton administration because of all the slave-wage foreigners and big tech's fetish with replacing American workers with the shiny new imports still warm from their import from Asia. <br/><br/>The Democrats and comfortable-with-losing Washington, D.C. Republicans like McConnell and McCain are equally at faul for this travesty. <br/><br/>America will not be a real country until it can control its borders. THAT is why Trump is still gining folowers. Asking the graying Times to figure that oue out is like presenting rural 3rd world natives with Nissan Leafs or F1 cars and wishing them well. 
Donald Trump is doing a national strip tease of what the GOP represents. But, if you want to see a true picture of the emperor wearing no clothes, watch the documentary called "You've Been Trumped." It's the film Trump hopes you'll never see; a heartrending look at his ruthless form of capitalism in a small Scottish community. In this case, a golf course and resort. Trump ultimately bulldozed the "losers" and their beloved way of life. This is a searing portrait of the true measure of this man.
"its immense cruelty in seeking to reduce millions of people to poverty and hopelessness"<br/><br/>This statement is bias of the most extreme sort.<br/>Are you suggesting that the original homelands of these immigrants are somehow inferior to the United States?<br/>Why are you (not very subtly) suggesting that purely materialistic success is somehow superior to the rich cultural diversity of these nations?<br/>Shame on you.
The irony is that Donald Trump, if indeed he is nominated by the<br/>Republican party (yes, it could happen), will be defeated by the same demographic which sunk Mitt Romney's campaign.  The more than twenty million Hispanic citizens will be energized to vote against Trump, and punish him and the Republican party for their years of hostility towards minorities, particularly Hispanics.
The left is losing its collective mind over Donald Trump.  He's on HRC's heels and her future looks grim, and so too will their electoral future if he is to win the general and be an effective president.  Same goes for the right.  They have pandered and patronized themselves into a parody.  Now the MIDDLE, on the other hand, we Independents, are loving it.  Trump clearly can beat most of them to any punch.  He has to play a little smarter with his words, for sure.  But if he is successful in winning the nomination, I predict that he'll win the general against any Democratic candidate.  
How many of those fantastic European or Scandinavian countries, bastions of liberal progressive life, confer birthright citizenship on anyone, regardless of the citizenship or legality of their parents? Based upon this article I would imagine they have all reached bottom and should no longer be used as examples of how bad America is.
If Trump starts to do well in the polls for the southern and western states he will be the Republican candidate.    The Democrats have to bring another candidate into the primaries because  Sanders is too far to the left for me  and although I am a Hillary supporte unless she comes out clean on the server situation will end up being a weakend candidate.     
Doesn't this menagerie of misfits justify the comment by Grover Norquist that it doesn't matter which Republican occupies the Oval Office as long as he--always a 'he'--has a pulse and can sign the pro-biz bills written by Special Interests, Inc.?  Really, what is there to choose from here?  
What I find so depressing is that the disgusting words that Trump speaks about immigrants are the very same words spoken by the rest of the Republican field. The only difference is that Trump says overtly what the others say covertly.<br/>They are all so full of hatred. 
So far, the debate on Trump's immigration proposal has been largely fact free.  Fortunately, the Congressional Research Service recently published "Sanctuary Jurisdictions and Criminal Aliens:  In Brief" which puts into some  context law breaking by those in the United States unlawfully.  <br/><br/>The CRS reports that as of the end of 2013 of the 214,000 people in our federal prisons 54,000 were non-citizens, almost all of which were here unlawfully.  That is 25%.  An additional 47,000 were in state prisons. <br/><br/>Trump's proposal to expel these criminals from the United States seems reasonable. 
The alternative 'high road' that the NYT seems to support is to open the gates to any invasion by citizens from other countries (aka illegal aliens) and give them a road to citizenship.<br/>The last amnesty program in the 80s was sponsored by Ted Kennedy with the promise that if we just acknowledged the illegals then living in the US with an amnesty program, then that would end the invasion. That was pure bunkum and everyone should have known it would only increase new illegals to come in, expecting the same treatment. And so it has turned out.<br/><br/>How many of these mass amnesty programs will the NYT sponsor against the considered judgments of the majority of the country who are turning against this bunkum. Trump and the GOP candidates are merely tuning in to a feeling by the country that enough is enough. Make it legal entry or nothing.
I watched Trump's Town Hall yesterday while on the elliptical in closed caption. He must have spent 5 minutes bragging to the crowd about attendance at his previous events. To paraphrase, "they put me in a 1000 person capacity room and it overflowed. So they moved it to a 5000 person capacity room and it overflowed." And on and on. Each time, the Town Hall roared its approval. Trump is a boor and a blowhard but angry frustrated Americans flock to him. It's Hitleresque.
There is a thread here more disturbing than Trump or anything Trump has said. Comment after comment in support and against immigration reform leave giant holes in any sort of comprehensive discussion of the issue. For example: Absent is any apparent realization that the "border" issue has almost as much to do with overstayed visas as illegal 'border jumping.' No mention of the fact that immigration enforcement by the first African American President has set records for deportation. Not one word about the political coward in chief, the Speaker of The House, who is solely responsible  for denying a vote on comprehensive reform. There is a real need for comprehensive reform that is based on practical reality. But the people electing the people to write those reforms need to pay closer attention or it will never, ever, happen. 
At one point, a few months ago, I wanted Democrats to re-register as Republicans to guarantee that Trump would head a losing ticket. Now I'm far less sure that either he'll lose or that any positive candidate would win. The responses on this list are terrifying to anyone with the constitution as more than a myth: Trump's rants about "lawyers" who justify his game, no less than candidates like Jindal and Cruse and Rubio, show how far politics has descended and the outrageous stupidity of an unconstitutional rant. How, for example, Trump would "force" Mexico to build a wall, and avoid other walls in Canada, for just one example is - on its face - absurd, let alone racist and against 90% of the American immigration tradition.
That Donald Trump can still lead the GOP pack of presidential candidates after all his inordinately-covered, demeaning bluster says more about us than it does about The Donald.<br/><br/>I admit that we're looking at a three-ring circus act here, but in The Donald, we have a particularly malevolent and mutant clown and the crowd's just eating it up.<br/><br/>Meanwhile, much of the remaining world burns, if not literally, at least figuratively. reaping destruction beyond measure.<br/><br/><a href="http://www.endthemadnessnow.org" title="www.endthemadnessnow.org" target="_blank">www.endthemadnessnow.org</a>
In a way I am glad Trump is leading the Republican polls. He is not constrained by super PACs or special interests. He says  what the Republicans are really thinking. He does not hide behind a smoke-screen of apparent congeniality, decorum and pretenses. With him what you see and hear is what you get. He is unafraid to bring forth issues which make polite circles uncomfortable. In all this Republican debacle ( even Democratic ) real issues are taking their rightful place ( not withstanding the narcissist drama ). In his own bombastic way he might be killing Citizens' United which is a very good thing. He may have inadvertently brought the two-party system work where the voters will make an informed decision and vote. Or maybe, I am just reading a lot in the unfolding drama!
Honestly, it's hard to know where to begin.  I'm reminded of Chauncey Gardner without the humanity.  I'm reminded that it's hard to find the lowest common denominator in this tangled narcissistic tale.  I watch Trump's town meeting, press conference and am reminded how the press is an enabler and the rest are lemmings.  And he is a factually challenged buffoon who uses insults to skip substance.<br/>It is at once entertaining and frightening.  It is farce without the French and slamming doors.  It is not a profile in courage for any of the players.<br/>It is just sad commentary on a once principled party in the death throes.<br/>It is the slow death of facts and a continuation of misplaced anger.<br/>And in the end nothing gets discussed, nothing gets fixed and we are all the lesser for it.
Perhaps the best solution for the USA is to deport the Republicans, the problem with this solution is no other country in the world would be crazy enough to accept them.<br/><br/>I mean the reality is there  is no way to deport 11-million people.  The cost to do so and the impact on the economy would bankrupt the country. Plus imagine the liberties we would all give up as the government tries to root out 11-million people. We all lose.<br/><br/>With an aging population, we need more immigration not less. Who are going to support paying into Social Security for the baby boomer. Who is going to work our farms, butcher livestock, build our homes and service our hotel industry - we know it won't be Republicans. 
It is the 24 hour cable news that has created the Trump-a-thon so currently mesmerizing.  As an Independent voter I would like to hear something of what the other Rep. candidates have to say, but with the non-stop coverage of Mr. Big-Shot there is no chance.  These networks dissemble, and plead at how annoying Trump is, or appears, only to go ahead with yet more interviews and analysis because the Donald sells.  Cable News has for many years been more about Entertainment than information for the public.  Trump is a star and they can't get enough of him, whatever disclaimers they so earnestly offer up.  This spotlighting of the frontrunner who in fact is a big fish in a small pond has distorted the political reality: it is extremely early days in a field of way too many people vying for an office that only one may have a shot at, and the voters deserve to see more than one of them, especially when the one on display is so full of himself and so lacking in solutions for the rest of us. 
The reason other Republicans cannot stand up against Trump's irrational castigation of immigrants is that blaming immigrants serves their purposes also. It allows them to sidestep the real causes of income inequality that are fueling people's misplaced rage against immigration. By making immigrants the scapegoat, GOP candidates are allowed to avoid putting forward real solutions such as a higher minimum wage, stronger rights for workers to unionize, a closing of corporate tax loopholes and an increase in the taxes on wealthy corporations and individuals. They don't want any of that so immigrants provide a convenient distraction.
I see Donald Trump as this year's version of Ross Perot.  Before Bill Clinton was elected in 1992, Ross Perot was at one time riding high in the polls.  It sure looked like he was on his way to becoming President Perot.  Donald Trump, like Ross Perot, has an impressive background in business but no experience in politics.  Republicans may say they like him in the polls, but when the dust settles they tend to vote for experience.  I really just don't see Donald Trump winning the nomination.  <br/><br/>I think his rivals would be smart to let him enjoy the spotlight for the time being and use their own down time to hone their message.  The worst thing they could do is attempt to match his rhetoric on immigration.  Had Mitt Romney selected Marco Rubio for a running mate in 2012, he might arguable be the President today.        
I was just playing with some numbers. Mr. Trump has stated that he wants to deport 11,000,000 immigrants back to Mexico. Let's assume he will use chartered buses: a modern tour bus holds about 54 people. So, it would take 203,703 buses to transport the people. A bus charters usually for about $800/day. Allowing an average of 3 days to get to Mexico and 3 days to deadhead back, would cost about $977,774,400.00. Close to a billion dollars when you figure in the driver's room and board along the way. Who's going to pay for this? Mr. Trump? After all, he keeps telling us that he is a rich man. <br/><br/>Or perhaps he would rather fly them. Using 757's with all coach seating would hold about 250 people. That means it would take 44,000 757's to do the job. I have no idea what it costs to rent a 757 to fly to Mexico City and back, but again, Mr. Trump might pay for it as he is, as he assures us, a very rich man. <br/><br/>Or  - - -  hmmm he has his own private 757  - -  maybe - - - - 
The GOP seems to want to add fascism to their brand.  Who do they think will mow our lawns, and pick our vegetables and work in our slaughter houses and restaurants?  If you think high school kids or all of those unemployed folks in Baltimore or Ferguson or Newark just need an opportunity then you haven't been paying attention.  The price for everything will go way up as citizens demand higher pay for dirty jobs....  We don't need a fence...at any point the government can implement E-verify and that would solve the issue.  But they don't and they won't because corporations love low wage workers who cannot easily move to another job.  The SSA knows where the false workers are and they take in over $6 Billion a year.  GOP may love to pick on a weak member of society but there are options to address this right now and no one is doing it.  You have to wonder why.  
For Hitler, it was the "Jewish problem." For Trump, it is the "Latino problem." Hitler did not run on an extermination platform; his campaign simply scapegoated Jews the same way Trump is scapegoating Latin American immigrants. This kind of politics can be surprisingly effective. Hitler won his election. Trump may too. The question for the rest of us should be: What will America become once we have endorsed his argument that purging some subgroup will make this a better place?
From the editorial:<br/><br/>"He would replace the Constitution’s guarantee of citizenship by birth with citizenship by bloodline and pedigree, leaving it to politicians and bureaucrats to decide what to do with millions of stateless children."<br/><br/>This shouldn't be hard to figure out.  You return the baby to the parents and then send them back to their native country (assuming they're here illegally).<br/><br/>Birthright citizenship worked in 1868 to prevent the post Civil War disenfranchisement of blacks.  It doesn't work today - unless you're trying to create an "anchor baby."
My question for the people wanting to repeal birthright citizenship is; what gives you the right to be an American citizen?
What low road?  First, lets face it, Democrats want open borders because having no viable policies, more poor people who are even worse off is their best chance of election victory - this is shameless electioneering.  But how about enforcing the law ... that's the HIGH ROAD.  We have something like 20% unemployment among young, poor minorities that are US citizens.  Let's handle that instead of importing ILLEGALLY more of them.  I have rights, too.  And I want the immigration laws enforced just like tax laws are enforced ... which I pay precisely.  I want immigration laws obeyed precisely.
How many  Americans can trace their lineage to legal immigrants? The Donald has found what he thinks is giving him the biggest ratings by his attacks  on Mexicans and Mexican Americans.  His views reflect his European roots. I have not heard him speak of any other group as rapists,, criminals, etc. Yet how many articles do I read of the Eastern Europeans &amp; Russian criminal gang activities in this country? Yet he remains strangely quiet on that. Is it because of his own family's make-up, being formerly married to a Czech himself &amp; having children that are first generation American? Isn't that rather self-serving?  
Exposing Trump and the far right is the job of the media.  That such viewpoints and political rhetoric could be followed and believed in polite company by millions of Americans itself is the symptom of failed media leading to a failed political system.  The for-profit viewpoint-biased media landscape will end up destroying this our nation and our democracy, if we let it.
It is becoming more and more obvious that Republicans truly have the same ideas about immigration as Donald Trump does, including the xenophobic and cruel attitude toward immigrants.
New York has to take the blame for helping propagate this man....they gave him whatever he wanted.  Upper west siders fought like crazy to stop his "Trump TV City" on the Hudson River shoreline.....but low and behold, the buildings were  built....luxury apartments.  Forget a public park where New Yorkers could enjoy the setting sun.  The Bronx fought the Trump machine when he wanted to build a gulf course on that rare New York entity - land.  But Trump prevailed - forget the people - and the sweetheart deal he has made regarding taxes and privileges is disgusting.  He obviously felt he had control of NY because of his money, and now feels he has control of the United States because of his money.  And he's having a great time doing it....
It appears, according to recent polls, about 15-20% of Democrats are following the GOP following Trump.
Great.  This is working out just like we Hillary supporters planned all along, using The Donald as a Pied Piper to lead the Republicans to their doom.   And all Hillary had to promise was to attend his next wedding.
I am nor have I ever been a fan of Trump. However, it would be nice  --  not to mention a sign of journalistic integrity  --  if the Times put in even 50% of the effort it makes analyzing his words (and often trashing him personally) analyzing the other Republican candidates. <br/><br/>It is as if, as with Fox, Trump is the guy you love to hate. By becoming part of the circus, you get more viewers who lap up the soap opera. To see the Times reduce itself to that level is sad.
Let’s see - middle class and below frustrated by economic conditions, scapegoating of a minority group, exhortations to act aggressively to purify the fatherland - ringing any bells?
No adults in the Big Tent because it is no longer safe for them. 
Since the Times is using the broad brush to paint all Republicans, I'll just say that all Democrats are corrupt and liars like Clinton and Obama.
Ivana Trump was not a US citizen when she gave birth to their three children. 
My mother was not a US citizen when I was born. She didn't became a citizen until I was about 17. Was any of that my fault? I went to school, played Little League baseball and Pop Warner football, was active in all sorts of activities in high school. All before she became a citizen (and getting an award for having the highest score on the citizenship test required then).<br/><br/>So what would you have done? Deport me? To where? Before I had the chance to serve as a US Air Force officer or earn several college degrees or get a job, and a house, get married, pay taxes, etc.?<br/><br/>What's the matter with some of you? Many of those getting birthright citizenship will be more "American" than some kids whose families have been here forever. <br/><br/>Birthright citizenship is one of our nation's strengths, not a weakness or something to be "fixed.
Thanks to Mr.Trump for exposing the Republican voters how racist  and stupid they are. The FoxTv pundits are not hiding anymore . They came out openly as racist and anti-immigrants and specially anti-Hispanic. Now the minorities do not have to be confused whom to vote. The Republican party has only one issue in this presidential election and that is immigration. Education, economy, foreign policy, ISIS, pro-life etc are not important this year.
The NY Times outdoes itself.  Besides referring to illegal immigrants as innocent Americans-in-waiting, you state that Trump would "impose a national job-verification system so that everyone, citizens too, would need federal permission to work."  Wow, I didn't know that was a plan.<br/>I was curious so I looked at his policy statement.  He would use E-verify.  I don't think that means I would need federal permission to work, it means I have the right to work here because I am a legal citizen.<br/>I really am surprised that the Times takes such a stand against E-Verify.  It does tell me who the Times is doing this for - and it's clearly not the innocent Americans in waiting.  Iyt's the ones who are dying to exploit those innocent Americans in waiting by illegally hiring - and under-paying them.<br/>I'm about ready to cancel my subscription.
I am appalled by these self professed Christians ,candidates and supporters who want to deport children born in the USA who had no say in where they were born to a country and environment that is foreign to them.<br/>Not only is it unconstitutional it is against the teachings of the Bible.<br/>It follows that you cannot separate children from their parents.<br/>We need a sensible discussion and feasible solutions on immigration, income inequality , our unfair tax code , infrastructure, penal code, voting rights,minimum wages, equal rights and pay for all,the global environment .<br/><br/>It seems we cannot have this discussion while this media circus around the Republican field, Mrs Clinton,s emails continues
So the NYT thinks wanting to enforce immigration law is a race to the bottom.   Maybe the NYT should advocate for changing the law instead of demonizing those who wish to enforce it.
I'll be interested in reading what The Times has to say about President Donald Trump in January 2017. Will it offer its congratulations? This editorial board can write what it wants, but the sheer volume of people who disagree with its positions should give it pause. 
Let's see, a bully terrorizes the schoolyard. He screams at the "new" kids because they look and speak different, and because they're new.<br/><br/>The school accepts all kids that live in the area, but now the bully just wants kids whose families he knows. If they're from somewhere else they need to be kicked out.<br/><br/>A bunch of other kids, call them the cowards, run to line up behind the bully and parrot his every move because they're afraid that other kids won't like them<br/><br/>Childish.<br/><br/>It appears to be the kind of America that the Republican Party wants to impose on all kids, everywhere.
What would Jesus do?  The answer is different on the right and the left but only one side is correct.
"it almost goes without saying — dismantle the economy"<br/><br/>Almost, but not quite.  Please explain how ending illegal immigration would dismantle the economy.
If walls don't work, why does the Whitehouse have one?
US immigration policy is both ineffective and inconsistent, unless one believes the US should generally admit stowaways and people who entered with visas then stayed after their lapse.<br/><br/>Even Trump can easily exploit such glaring flaws. <br/><br/>As much as he offends most, Trump has found a concern that really resonates with most Americans, if not with NY Times's editors or with all the Times's superior readers. Now Trumps can hog the spotlight longer.  
.To get in I had to apply for a visa at the London embassy.<br/>  I had to prove I was worthy<br/>1.- Did I have money to support myself and not be dependent on welfare/taxpayer?<br/>2. Was I intelligent enough to warrant coming to America?<br/>3. Was I going to take a job an American could do ? If not what could I offer America ?<br/>4. Did I have acriminal record ?<br/>etc.<br/> Then I HAD TO WAIT FOR APPROVAL<br/>-- Trump is  right -- build the wall<br/> THEN GET IN LINE . There will be a gate -only if you are worthy .
The tone and tenor of this editorial informs me that the Times has reached the disquieting conclusion – to it – that Donald Trump is very likely to be the next President of the United<br/>States.<br/><br/>While not a complete Donald man myself, I am nonetheless extremely grateful to him for helping inform the Times that Americans still believe this is the greatest country that ever was or will be; do not hate rich people; distrust Iran; support Israel; want strict controls put on illegal immigration; are against looting and arson in our cities no matter what the cause may be; and want the next President to be all about jobs, jobs and more jobs.<br/><br/>And I look forward with great anticipation to standing with him on January 20, 2017 at the docks in New York City where the luxury ocean liners are berthed, wrapped in the flag, where we will be waving goodbye to the editors and columnists of the Times as they depart for the politically correct climes of Sweden, Denmark and Norway.
Perhaps all of us non-anchor babies should not only carry a copy of our own birth certificate, but those of our parents, as well. Should we get those documents now?  I wonder what the effect of that would be on every town hall across the country...
Wow! Isn't one of Donald Trump's wives (ex) an immigrant (Czech)? Didn't she marry one of her husbands for citizenship? (the Donald) How does the Donald stand on marriages for US citizenship? Are the children of these unions legal? Like his. Doesn't sound right to me. Or as that old saying goes - Those who live in glass houses shouldn't throw rocks...I'd expect nothing more or less  from the man who would do anything for ratings. The Donald (isn't that some foreign affectation) should look in the mirror.... 
The people have seen their incomes decline for the past 35 years. They are angry and they need a scapegoat.  The GOP can't point to the greed of corporate America to explain why they earn so little in the richest country in the world. Much easier to point the finger at poor people on welfare and people who come here to work.   
"...the faux-populist billionaire who says immigrants are the reason this country is weak and frightened..."<br/>So why did you leave out the word "illegal"?? That is after all, what Trump speaks about...those immigrants that are here illegally or who step over the border and have their child delivered here.<br/>And why will you not discuss those immigrants here illegally that do commit crimes?? Thousands and thousands of crimes have been committed by people here illegally...that is a fact. Doesn't matter who commits more crime: natural born, first generation, second, and so on...the fact that thousands of crimes have been committed by people here illegally are thousands too many!!!
Relieved from the niceties of political doublespeak and pap it turns out the GOP base is hungry for the angry politics of white nationalism. Nothing good can come of it.
It's very easy to sit in New York City and preach about such things as the supposed morality of expelling illegal immigrants when the problem has little effect on you. So lets have an honest discussion about morality. Tell me all about the morality of watching meat packing go from being a high-paid job to a low-wage job? What about the morality of watching somebody who broke our laws to enter this country being granted citizenship or residency while watching somebody from the same country spend thousands because they followed our laws? And strictly speaking, how do I take somebody seriously about wanting to join our social contract when their first act is breaking it?
We reap what we sow.  The country has spent so many years valuing celebrity over intelligence that we should scarcely be surprised when shallow chameleons like the GOP slate emerge as front-runners.   We like stupidity.  We got stupidity.
In Jungian terms, Donald Trump perfectly constellates the shadow archetype of the Republican Party, and that is why his campaign has been so successful. That shadow consists of unbridled greed, racism, misogyny, exceptionalism, nativism, ignorance, and grandiosity. We just have to hope that the U.S. as a whole is still healthy and decent enough to reject him and everything he stands for.
Further proof that the current manifestation of the Republican Party is incapable of adaptation and/or change: despite losing in 2012 in part because of Romney's "self-deportation" stance, they are already moving farther right and taking early steps to ensure that no Hispanics vote for them, even if their candidate is Marco Rubio.
Maybe unlimited immigration,massive social spending,crowding and traffic are what Americans want.We sure are experiencing it now,in So California.Maybe you will enjoy,in the future.
Actually most Americans do not support a path to citizenship and that is what is helping Trump lead the pack.  Even a lot of democrats do not support giving illegal immigrants citizenship.  There are very few people in this country that understand economics unfortuntely and this platform is going to leap him ahead.  Hillary has no chance at winning at this point now that the FBI is investingating her. There is no way independents will vote for her and she is even losing supporters of her own party.  I just don't know who the democrats can run and win at this point?  Its too early to tell who the republican nominee will be but I think they have an easy path to the White House.  If it is Trump then he has a slam dunk. 
In proclaiming that illegal immigrants are good for the country, the editorial boards ignores the fact that we can recruit all the legal immigrants we want by simply increasing legal immigration quotas. Millions of legal immigrants are waiting in line. We don't need illegal immigrants to stimulate the economy or to sustain population levels. The board's assertion that deporting illegal immigrants puts America's image as an immigrant-welcoming country at risk is absurd. The United States accepts about one million permanent legal immigrants per year, more than the other nations of the world combined. 
As disgusting and sad as it is, America finally seems to be dealing with the issue of immigration, courtesy of Donald Trump.  I have nothing but confidence the majority of American people will take a long, hard look at themselves, acknowledge their misguided fear and remember this is a land that has always embraced and celebrated its immigrant brothers and sisters.  Maybe, just maybe, we will finally deal with this question as the leader of the free world.  One can only hope 'The Donald' will make some outrageous, hateful, self-involved statements about racism, income equality and poverty in order to make the 2016 campaign for the White House about principles rather than personalities.     
Throughout the history of our country, Conservatives have always been on the wrong side of social issues: not occasionally, not often, but always. Any time that civil liberties or personal freedoms have been expanded or extended, it has always been the Conservative elements of the country who stood in stark opposition. Any time that civil liberty or personal freedom has suffered a restriction or set back, it has always been by the pens of Conservative legislators. Suffrage, interracial marriage, gender equality, gay rights, school integration, reproductive rights, and religious freedoms. The Conservative portions of our country have come together on court house steps with hateful signage and rallied against every single one of these things. Every new liberty has been attained only against the torrential flow of Conservative public opinion.
Can anyone enlighten me about the birthright issue?  I'd like to know what are the good consequences of allowing pregnant women to come to the U.S. just to give birth, and give their babies dual citizenship?  I think the Circumstances of the birth should determine citizenship.  Why would we want a bunch of Chinese, or Mexican, or any other nationals, able to vote in our elections, or take advantage of the social security system?  Would they be required to pay taxes?  I don't get it.
What we see in Trump are the makings of a national disaster.  He is laughable now, a representative of a crazy fringe.  But history has shown that such people often rise to power with devastating consequences.  The fringe is growing: the far right, racist, violent, ignorant Tea Party, government conspiracy black helicopter crowd is gaining power, and has found the scapegoat such groups always seek, in immigrants.   
I really don't see how there was ever much of a difference between the content of what Trump says and the rest of the Republicans. What is disheartening is to see that whenever any hater, spewing essentially anti-American values like Trump how many others remain silent. I guess we don't have to wonder how Hitler came to power any more.
This article states that it is a well known fact that most Americans strongly support  keeping the illegal immigrants in the US.<br/>While Trump is clearly out of hand, the amount of support that he and others who are advocating that the illegal immigrants leave the US and then get to the back of the immigration  line are getting demonstrate that the "well known fact" that most Americans support keeping illegal immigrants in the US is likely not a fact.<br/>I would suggest that the Times investigate the data collection process that produced this "well known fact". 
Run, Joe, run.  <br/><br/>Someone has to put some sanity into this campaign, and you are the best one to do it.  
If you read Trumps position paper, it is actually quite well-thought out, full of common sense, and will be effective. <br/><br/><a href="https://www.donaldjtrump.com/positions/immigration-reform" title="https://www.donaldjtrump.com/positions/immigration-reform" target="_blank">https://www.donaldjtrump.com/positions/immigration-reform</a><br/><br/>The establishment politicians can huff and puff all they want, but the American people will support Trump if nobody else will bring any rationality to the issue.
Well I see the Republicans plan to engage Hispanics is working well. 
Why is it we never hear the GOP or the Democrats tell the truth ? The solution is clear which is Jailing employers who hire illegals ??? Could it be that they really do not want to cut off cheap labor which pushes down pay to all Americans...
Sorry, but I have to question the intelligence of any progressive Democrat in the lower socio-economic classes of our society that welcomes increased competiton for jobs, wages and government resources from immigrants....especially if those immigrants are here illegally.<br/><br/>I would also question the sincerity of the empathy that the progressive Democrats in the upper echelons of the socio-economic ladder have for their less fortunate brethern if they favor amnesty for millions of illegals and oppose shutting down the borders. 
With the advent of Trump, it has become easier to understand how, as that final cataclysmic election approached, the remaining rational citizens of the Weimar Republic simply did not believe what they were witnessing.
Latinos are the fastest growing ethnicity in the US.  We were 6% of the electorate in 2004, and grew to 10% by 2008.  In the last two elections we voted heavily for Obama.  Furthermore, we grew to 17% of the electorate in Florida in 2012 and gave Florida to Obama.  Continuing to wage war on the demographic that is giving elections to the Democrats isn't a smart strategy for winning.  
These are the Democrats' platform today:<br/>(1) Open our borders to the world's poor, and give amnesty to everyone who broke the law to get here;<br/>(2) Increase the minimum wage so that even more low-income Americans cannot get entry level jobs and encourage the newly minted legal immigrants to continue taking under the table payments;<br/>(3) Keep on increasing the entitlement state while simultaneously adding to its rolls;<br/>(4) Don't pay for any of it ... ever.<br/>(5) And keep ratcheting up taxes and regulations on businesses and the "wealthy" to ensure that we also can't grow our way out of our debt.<br/><br/>Great plans all around.  Can't wait to see how it all works out for my kids!
The vast majority of Americans from the Rio Grande to the North Pole are immigrants or descendants of immigrants. Separating those who would be deemed illegal and sent back would be an insurmountable task and an incredible strain on our transportation network. It wasn't long ago some called to "Send them back to Africa!" Where are we going to send "them today." They're from a variety of peoples and cultures. They are men, woman and children who have no other place to go. Shame.
Anything as complex as immigration policy will have to be changed, changed, and changed again as time goes by.  What Trump offers is an impulse--to protect the country and confront the invasion.  What the Times offers is also an impulse--de facto amnesty and open borders.  If I must choose between two emotional impulses, I choose Trump's.
The patriotism and traditionalism of " faux-populist billionaire" is delivered with unvarnished intolerance to that audience most fearful of what they see as the encroaching modernity.<br/>While acknowledging the risk of using the overused term, "fascist," it fits. Trump is a fascist. His methods, his delivery, and all that we know is disingenuous about his words conform to the title.<br/>What's puzzling is that almost all of the remaining candidates lack the strength of character to call him out. Meanwhile, the followers begin to embrace this most dangerous narrative. 
I will hand it to Trump: he is saying the otherwise unspeakable, and many people (on both sides of the political spectrum) are reacting with, hey this makes sense.<br/><br/>Any why shouldn't they?  (Other than wanting to import more Democratic votes,) Why do Democrats want a flood of poor immigrants?  It goes against every Democratic objective.  It diminishes wages at the low end of the spectrum, it hurts unions, it takes low-income jobs away from Americans.  AND it strains the entitlement state.<br/><br/>Proponents of entitlements need to recognize that the more people who depend on them, the less we can afford to allocate.  A flood of poor immigrants is an entitlement killer.  Sweden is the model for democratic socialism, and they get it.  Only 10 percent of people living in Sweden are foreign born.  Why more Democrats don't get this is beyond me.
The tiny slice (less than 25% of self-identified GOP primary voters) of the voting pool that the current GOP shiny object (The Donald) has transfixed really does not warrant the amount of coverage--superficial at best, cheerleading at worst-- he is receiving.  This is one consequence of the attachment to "horse race" coverage the current crop of media relies on to generate interest during a GOP primary composed of retreads and has beens.<br/><br/>Keep the coverage short, witty and as dismissive as The Donald deserves.   Watch the polls change.  
This is absolutely great! The liberal media built-up Trump thinking that it would be a disaster for the Republican Party. Now one can tell that these same media folks are running scare that Trump is actually a bright, articulate, straight forward individual that is making a connection with the electorate. The interesting thing is that the same feeling of fear is now being seen on the Republican side with all the well connected "conservative" media folks in Washington. Trump is not controlled by the media or the billionaires (many of whom control the media) so it is a great spectacle to see them running scare. Trump must be doing something right here so I say go Trump 2016 and bring some change to Washington!
Obama remains the ultimate shiny bright object as evidenced by his mesmerized and transfixed followers (I.e., the majority of commenters here.)
Never in my glorious mind would I ever think we we're being pulled down the muddy path of truth and dare. There's a reason why I remembered vividly Norman Thelwell yesterday and this morning. Bring on the ponies!
I'm sure the author of this piece would consider Hillary's email server problems a shiny object.  Is it?  Was Nixon's 18 minutes of missing tape a shiny object?<br/><br/>Shiny objects are really how the other side tries to diminish your arguments.  It's name-calling.  Sarah Palin may have been a shiny object to the left but to many on the right, she cut through the elitist fog like a knife, a shiny one perhaps, but a sharp one too.
That said, may we now turn to Bernie Sanders? He is saying a lot more interesting things than Trump.
Obama, himself, was a shiny new object.  His rhetoric was dazzling.  
I think the media, be it the NYT or NPR, are the distractors.  It seems that the omission is just as dangerous as the endorsement.  Do others see the missing news about Bernie Sanders, for example, as I do?  Hillary Clinton gets the limelight because she is dynasty, as is Jeb Bush.  The Donald is just loud.
Don't forget the "pie-in-the-face object": e.g. Palin asking the man who made her famous (hint: he's a Senator) if he'd allow her to make a farewell speech, too.<br/>This would have been overkill had it not been so well deserved.
Donald Trump may be  ‘‘is the brightest and shiniest of all the bright, shiny objects’’ as Axelrod suggested, but...<br/><br/>If the primary candidate doesn't have 'the right stuff' to face off against Der Donald and, at the very least, break even, how can the electorate possibly believe the POTUS-wannabe possesses 'the right stuff' to go vis-à-vis with foreign sovereigns, friendly and unfriendly to US interests, playing at realpolitik on the international stage...or, be able to handle that proverbial 3:00am telephone call?<br/><br/>Am watching and greatly appreciating how the shiny ball of Trump's combative style is working at separating the wheat from the chaff, almost unnoticed as we concentrate on his style rather than his effect, and right before our eyes...and, so far, it's been all chaff with only an isolated grain here and there.
Was it just me, or could anyone else not get passed the lede? People read what "journalists" write. If you don't write about it, no one will read about it.  If you don't cover Sarah Palin or  the Kardashians or Donal Trump or Mike Huckabee because nothing they say or do is newsworthy, people won't get distracted by them. I think we need to remove the title "journalism" and return to "reporting" because that's all that we hear these days, endless reports with no critical analysis, judgment or perspective.  
It is possible to be a shiny object without being a demagogue or a con man. There is such a thing as great showmanship, just a personality and demeanor that a huge number of people find irresistible. It can be totally positive. The most popular actors have this trait. And some of our Presidents have had it, too, for better or worse. John Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, and Bill Clinton are examples. I still remember Bill Clinton's speech at the 2012 Democratic Convention. A humdinger! President Obama has it sometimes, when he sets out to deliver one of his great speeches. I wish Hillary Clinton had more of it. Maybe she will if she puts her teleprompter aside, worries less about defense, and talks to people from her heart.  
Fun piece to read but oversimplifies why Trump is grabbing so much attention and support in the polls. I suspect that is the author's objective since doing so clearly trivializes the reasons for his support. We have a dysfunctional legislature. And we have become weaker on the world stage. And it's getting a little old blaming that all on Bush. I thought Trump would fizzle out, if for no other reason, he is "un-presidential" in many ways. So far it's clear I was wrong. <br/><br/>But the author is really pointing out how the media is driven to cover headlines and shiny objects. And since the reading public loves that, those who write for the media can't help but oblige. I think that means that since the public has been dumbed down so is the media. I agree. 
sounds true  hope  the republicans  shall not win<br/>next year
Shiny objects in the rear view mirror of politics are actually a lot smaller, insignificant and further from reality than they appear.
I just hope all these distractions don't interfere with college football.
People are distracted by BSOs because they treat Democracy like a spectator sport. It was never intended to be that. We're meant at the very least to vote, do our own research with our free educations, participate in our own local elections. We should serve our country in the citizen military which serves our representative government and participate in open debates guaranteed by our free speech.  Instead, we repeat outright lies and vicious half-truths from shills who understand they can manipulate masses of folks who seem to be deliberately unable to research a single accusation, manipulation, misstatement of the facts.<br/><br/>We get what we work for.
Yes, the press colludes.  Most of the GOP would-be leaders have a ton of money to buy enough media as it is, and the "free press" can't  help themselves but to polish the BSOs -- free airtime, daily articles,etc, which assure that the biggest mouths dominate the daily "news."
  Shiny objects, and Trump is one of them, are a necessary distraction for boring, and bored, groups of people, thinking notoriety of them may brush off as a reflection, however briefly, or irrelevant, in their obscure marginalized world. Trump may seem a clown to those seeking pomp and  circus, but if they persist in their folly (by supporting him), a dangerous 'napoleon' may come back to bite them. Crazy loons, fed by fear and anger? It sure looks like it.
"One touch of nature makes the whole world kin,<br/>That all with one consent praise new-born gawds,<br/>Though they are made and moulded of things past,<br/>And give to dust that is a little gilt<br/>More laud than gilt o'er-dusted.<br/>The present eye praises the present object."
Why don't we talk about propaganda any more? It's bigger than the BSO
Maybe Chris Hedges deserves a citation on this article? Did I miss it on my quick scan through? Am I distracted? Probably. I would like to read what Mr. Hedges might have to add here.<br/><br/>We are not the ones being duped here in this, the political ring. This is what "the public" wants. It is our ethos, our societal valuation that deems "distraction (cheating)" as fair play. It is OK to hide the origin of the idea- The chrome dome with rug... But buyer, or voter beware. <br/><br/>Are we not entertained?
And at one time Obama was that bright, shiny object. Looking very bleak for the Democrats right now.
Then there are those like the Koch brothers, Grover Norquist, et al who believe that the race for the Oval Office like the presidency itself all reinforce the illusion--the shiny objects--of representative democracy.  They know better who is really in charge.  We may not know their faces but they pull our strings while we stare glassy-eyed at the shiny objects dangled before us to divert our attention.  Nothing but sound and fury . . . etc.    
I've always thought that the source of the phrase was the behavior of certain species of birds, such as crows, to pick up shiny but useless objects and carry them back to their nests. Sort of like when the dog catches the car he's chasing, what would he do if he actually caught it. Both exampies exemplify the Republican-voting electorate. 
This nails it for me:  Obama's birth certificate, Hillary's emails, scary Mexicans...  Look over here, folks, keep your eye on the bright shiny thing while we lift your wallet!  <br/><br/>Thanks for an enlightening column, Mark Leibovich.
When the New York Times starts paying attention to Charlie Pierce we know that there are going to be good times coming.  The pretty, shiny objects are already tarnishing and all that's left are those grey, thoughtful men and women who drive the thoughtless crowds to distraction.  In the end, not even The Libidinous Visitor will be enough.
So I wrote a comment about how the corporate controlled media limits discussion to those policies that are preferred by billionaires, and how the modern political system is itself a bright shiny thing that distracts the people from governance.  I hit enter.  I get a message that my comment is awaiting moderation.  And now it is completely gone.<br/>Thank you for proving to me that i am correct.
Nobody likes shiny objects more than the marketing department at the newspaper, network, ....
The shiniest of objects, "Today's headline", has become "this moment's headline".  Politicians and corporate PR hacks know this and use it to their advantage, and the advertising-dollar-seeking media comply.  Editors have become Aditors.  
'In other words, the press colludes with politicians in this culture of distraction-­mongering.'<br/><br/>I would go one step further and say that the press actually CREATES these distractions.  Trump et al. would never have gotten the time of day as a candidate if the corporate press hadn't spent the last few months--24/7--discussing style over substance.<br/><br/>For the 2016 race, it appears the press has decided to be kingmaker.  It decides who and what to cover, how much coverage time to allot, and who and what to omit from coverage. While the mainstream press has been dumbed-down over the years, the level of substance-free coverage of the 2016 race is a frightening low.  It's so obviously manipulative.  <br/><br/>To spend so many hours covering a blowhard like trump while ignoring or trashing of the wildly popular Bernie Sanders is a dereliction of duty by the press, a capitulation from journalism to tabloid fodder.  
Well I'm glad that a NYT reporter realizes that the press colludes with politicians to highlight distracting irrelevancies instead of substantive politics.  But what specifically will the NYT do to stop this behavior among its own reporters?  The email stuff with Hillary Clinton is exactly one of these shiny objects that has nothing to do with policy.  
Visions of the movie "Up"   the dog pack distracted by the "Squirrel"<br/><br/>Remind me again why we are the dominant species on the planet?
SQUIRREL!
The crowd of Republicans running for President is so incredibly, unbelievably bad, that Trump--if he talks about enough subjects--once in a while sounds a little less bad.  (This is NOT an endorsement!  And I used to consider myself a liberal Republican, when that category still existed.)
I love every word Liebovitch writes.  He manages to drill down into political absurdity like no one else I read, because he understands that the politically absurd is simultaneously absurd and relevant.   I feel like people tend to either dismiss things they deem absurd or argue that the absurdity is in fact rational or otherwise not absurd.  Liebovitch's clever syntheses, here and elsewhere, are correct and lucid. 
Great title and article. Of course, I like the picture of the cat playing with the wig.
Great writing.  New York Times, despite some recent sloppy reporting, still the best.
Unfortunately some shinning objects are lethal.  The crash of 2008, foreclosure crisis and Iraq war.  The Republicans have been masters at deflection of our malaise on Obama.  I have coffee with some men in a Republican distract who have this constant dirge of blaming Obama for just about everything.  As though the Bush record has been expunged.   Our problems started with the Obama Presidency.   These people seem to parrot their opinions from the talk show rabble.  Our short attention span leads from no solution to no solution to disaster.  
<br/>Obama is a master charlatan.<br/><br/>When he spoke in front of two groups opposed to each other, each group thought he supported their site.<br/><br/>He told his advisor after, I have a gift."<br/><br/>A master charlatan and mesmerizer.
Great analysis--especially the Palin-esque shiny object mention.<br/><br/>Why no mention of Dan Quayle? Also shiny (pleasant to look at), and not much else.<br/><br/>Also, no prognostications on Trump's choice for #2; Is ANYTHING on this earth shiny enough without out-shining Trump?
Are these guys for real? Or is it just a trick? Could the trick be to show that one  is rich enough to be one's own person, and one is not a paid stooge? Has research shown that insulting  a minority helps you get elected? (Hardly a new idea, of course, . . . ) I heart many ethnic jokes in the 80s and 90s, but they were acceptable as they were told by members of that minority themselves. Has politics turned into entertainment? Or a beauty contest? Or is it all a distraction from the real big issues, where new ideas are needed, hard choices have to be made, which at least part of the electorate does not want to hear about? 
They who sow the wind reap the storm.
Amazing to watch the GOP and its donors grapple with trying to contain the Frankenstein they created. 
These very people who want to take Mr. Trump down are those who created him. Mr. Trump is, indeed, Mary Shelley's "Modern Prometheus."
Trump needs to strengthen his security.  The ruling class will stop at nothing to stop him.
This was the first article I read this morning.  Thank you NYT for putting a smile on my face.  I love to see billionaires wasting their billions on the party of their own creation.  
What!? Big money not controlling the agenda? Notify the Supreme Court and they can vote to release the army to serve the fascist oligarchs.
The puppeteers are in a panic.<br/><br/>Ain't that just wonderful. 
Donald Trump is the smart businessman and strong leader that America needs.<br/><br/>President Trump 2016!
The disgusting amount of money, agendas, backroom deals, lobbying, and political collusion on display here is the VERY reason that someone like Trump is so successful. <br/><br/>Despite the fact that I am no Republican, I am sorely tempted to hold my nose and support the candidacy of a man who appears to be the only hope for challenging this vile and flagrant takeover of our political system. 
So the GOP wants to get rid of Trump. It must be very hard for them to hear someone saying out loud what they all really believe. I love the part where he tells them they have sold their soles to the super PACs. I really hope this spells the end to the GOP before the GOP spells the end to the USA.
Think Trump's the wild card?<br/>There are many in this deck.<br/>All past nonvoters.
So what has the GOP done or undone to make this country great in the last 8 years?  I'm going with Trump saying he will make this country great "again"!
I like that Trump is causing problems for the GOP establishment. How interesting that he is for (at the moment) universal health care. He might have enough pull to bring the far right closer to the center????? That would be useful.
Trump is their Frankenstein, created over the term of the Obama administration by the vitiolic attacks and their unwillingness to work together. Now that they've created the monster it has turned on it's masters. Maybe now the "regular" people in the GOP will realize how their leader's interests don't mesh with their own. One can only hope!
There is a huge disgust among all Americans that our elected leaders could care less about America or our future, and that all of them are behaving irresponsibly, captive to corporate $ and getting re-elected.  When I was younger Dems and Reps worked together to solve problems, but no longer.  But if you believe Trump is a solution, you are putting your faith in a buffoon, not matter how good it feels to do so.  George Bush was a complete idiot, but Trump makes him look like a genius.  Where are the sane people in the GOP?
They got him to sign an agreement to be loyal to the GOP if he loses, in return for being treated fairly.  If they turn against him, as they are scheming to do, it will breach that contract and he will be free to do as he pleases.<br/><br/>He now has more leverage than ever.  The GOP is now bound by their own contract to treat him fairly from now until next June when the primary election is completed.  He can do whatever he wants until that day.  Brilliant!
These rightwing pacs and politicians and propoganda organs like Fox and Limbaugh have spent two decades dumbing down their constituents to an almost unbelievable level of ignorance, bigotry, xenophobia and white-man victimhood.  <br/><br/>Looks like they all overplayed their hands and are now hoist by their iwn petard.  Hilarious, in a sad sort of way.
Actually, Trump is a worst problem than they think. <br/><br/>Trump can go home tomorrow, but lurking in the back of our brains will still be the fact that no one running was able to over-ride him. <br/><br/>Every R candidate that 4 months ago we thought would be taking the nod, has been stopped in the water or ground down to dust.<br/><br/>Trump is fading fast. I watched his last escalator-speech and the laughs and shouts of encouragement were few and far between. Meanwhile the "Trump-Thumpers" were in full goon mode outside, slugging protestors.<br/><br/>He's old news, not so entertaining, and making folk nervous - but come voting day it will be remembered that he took every front runner - Bush, Walker, Rubio, Perry, ah, you know the list - and he wiped them out - and they were powerless to shut him up.<br/><br/>This is the weakest bunch ever offered by the party.<br/>That will be remembered long after Trump is gone.<br/>That will be the "Trump Legacy".
I think Mr Trump will stop himself.<br/>The presidency is a thankless job with too much recognition and little personal reward. I cannot imagine being trailed by security guards for the rest of my life and I don't think he does either. I don't even want my kids around that long and I like them.
Donald Trump now leads Hillary Clinton by 5 to 10 points depending on the poll. It's over. Hillary's campaign is completely deflated like a balloon lying flat and empty on the living room floor after all the kids have left the party.<br/><br/>The GOP insiders are and have been so far behind the power curve they will never catch up.  They don't know what hit them and still think that some clever new strategy will work.  It won't.  It's over. Trump is running away with it and is so far ahead neither Jeb nor Mitt can possibly catch up.  It   is   over. 
The Pubs created Trump with their "Southern Strategy" and when embracing the Tea Party. They had no problem with him when he became head birther in chief accusing our president of not being born here, knowing his mother was unquestionably an American citizen, making Obama one no matter where he was born. <br/><br/>So now that they have let the carnival barker into their party, they want to stop him. Well Trump is the tail wagging the Pub dog maybe all the way to a primary win.
Ha, Trump has pulled back the curtain on the big show lol.<br/>He's certainly gotten voters' anger at DC exactly right, the GOP doesn't want to own what they created via Fox, Heritage Foundation, Limbaugh et al.<br/>The Kochs aren't sitting idle. Please shine a light on the gazillions they are plowing into senate and congressional races and other of their interests. It's just the presidency they thought they had locked up, momentarily out of reach but people are working on it.<br/>I gotta root for Trump over Kochs, Adelson or their ilk's puppets.<br/>The country however would most benefit if that anger was channeled through the un-bought Senator Sanders.
Mr. Trump's candidacy is not a bug, it's a feature. This is exactly what Republicans, particularly the Tea Party, wanted after relentlessly (but not entirely successfully) trying to bring down a Black man they hate so much.<br/><br/>Whether you think he's a positive or a negative influence, Mr. Trump is exactly what the base has beginning for, and thefore deserves.
After reading this article I have more admiration for Trump phenomenon. Trump for the first time in Recent American history is trying to win the White House for the American people . I am proud of him.
Do we have a border or don't we?  Do we have a country or don't we?  Are we going to allow PC bullies to convince us boys who say they feel like girls should be allowed to shower with girls?  <br/><br/>This nation has gone nuts, through a carefully orchestrated, long term, campaign of what remains Communist propaganda.  Trump is the logical answer.  No matter who we put forward, the Left will attack them viciously.  If it is a black man, they don't care.  If it is a woman, or a Mexican--as in the case of Alberto Gonzalez, who Hillary personally helped take down--it doesn't matter.  Conformity uber alles.<br/><br/>President Trump: get used to saying it.
Frankly the media combined with the last super recession has created Trumpenstein.  Of particular blame goes to television broadcast stations like Fox News and CNN.  The middle ground is boring and doesn't sell.  Firing up the two polar opposite views from the far left and far right has riled the disenfranchised.  Trumpenstein offers a change in Washington.  Change is what they want.  There is no consideration for what type of change they will get.  They are looking for someone to say 'Your Fired" and Trumpenstein fits the bill.  <br/><br/>Yes the Republicans have a party disaster on their hands.  However, there is nothing they can do about it.  Crack down on the monster and he'll run as a third party.   <br/><br/>The Trumpenstein monster will be destroyed.  Will his creator, the discontented masses, decide he's become another politician and storm the castle with pitch forks in hand?  Or will it be the general election in November of 2016?  Time will tell.
 Commentators scoffed when Roger Stone said their were people that were sitting in groups, wetting their pants and scheming how to take down Donald Trump. <br/><br/>I have a new respect for Roger Stone and his understanding of the GOP. Clearly he is proven to be correct. 
The problem for the billionaires led by the Koch's who thought they had a lock on the GOP is that Trump articulates what the GOP base wants. They do think that the very rich got away after they crashed the economy by turning it into a casino, they do think that the 1% should pay more taxes and they do think that laws regulating the out out control healthcare industry are needed so that universal healthcare without bankrupting people can be a reality. Most especially  they do want illegal immigration to stop and illegal immigrants to be deported. 
That's a find how do you do.   Less than a day after the man pledges loyalty to the party the party begins to seriously plan to destroy him.  These guys are why the party has the bad image it has.  They are  the reason folks say one thing on the trail and then do nothing when they get into office.<br/>If Trump wins the nomination and the general election, he will become the head of the Republican party.  Perhaps some changes will be made when the neo-cons took over the party with Bush sr. are out on the streets.
The thing that has the Club for Growth absolutely petrified is the fact that The Donald has no specific ties to the fossil fuel industry yet.   Since every member of the Gas and Oil Party in congress is on their campaign payroll, this could threaten their absolute control of the party.  It'll be interesting to see how this will turn out...
Everyone (most) see Trump in the present tense. I see him in the future tense i.e. getting the nomination &amp; then ? If he gets the ultimate prize, does someone take it away? The foundation of Trump is the words from Rush and Fox. (Thanks Frank Luntz and Newt Gingrich.) This could turn ugly for our nation. Not necessarily if Trump wins the prize, but it opens the door for a potential autocrat in the future using the same foundation.  
Money isn't everything, a concept that has little value to the moneybags who believe an election isn't worth having if they can't buy it.  Interesting that both of the people roiling the waters in both parties this years, Trump and Bernie Sanders, are saying roughly the same things and getting the attention of more and more voters without the huge bank accounts provided by the overly rich who have contributed the most to their phony political funds.  
This is such an entertaining campaign that no one is even missing Sarah Palin or Michelle Bachman. I find it really amusing that the Republican with the highest numbers after Trump is Ben Carson. If Carson got elected president, would the Republicans torture him the way they have tortured Obama all these years? This old political junky is enjoying the hell out of this show, but in the end I will stick with my man, Bernie Sanders. In any debate, Bernie would wipe the floor with Trump. On with the show!
A suggested strategy for the GOP to stop Der Donald:<br/><br/>Sometimes referred to as, "The death of a thousands bites" strategy, nature show aficionados have seen this strategy in the way hyenas chase lions away from a kill.<br/><br/>Someone starts by taking an aggressive snipe at Trump, then when he lashes back defensively, someone else jumps on him about something, and around and around always snipping, always attacking, always keeping him on the defensive lashing out...Duh Trump's temperament is sure to conspire to orchestrate an implosive self-destruction before the middle of next July...And it will be spectacularly noisy, rude, crude, denigrating and an absolute bummer from the Democrats' perspective.
The photo is revealingly bizarre. Trump's anonymously preened rat pack to the right; coiffed, expressionless marionettes on the left [perfectly] holding signs talking about 'The Silent Majority'. Well, I am old enough to remember the '60's with Spiro Agnew's and Richard Nixon's original 'Silent Majority'. <br/><br/>Trump's photo in his tower is completely controlled, of course, everything is staged. But look at the staging, look at the conscious choices. It is more of the '60's, a combination of Mad Men and The Stepford Wives.
Attempting to stop Trump may well backfire, because it will call more attention to him and make him the center of the discussion, which may encourage non-Republicans to give Trump a harder look, because, if the Republicans do not like him, there may be a reason why they should, particularly if they are not sure about how things are going with the Democrat side of things.  <br/><br/>The best way to deal with any political campaign is to have an honest, full, and robust discussion of all of the issues and then let the people decide.  If the emperor has no clothes, the people will see that.  If the people like what they see, then they will vote as they see it.  <br/><br/>The democratic process does not prevent us from making mistakes in who we elect, but we should let the democratic process work its way.  A few people should not try to decide what we hear and what we don't when it comes to political debate.  
Coded racism has been the national political strategy of the Republican Party since Nixon. Trump is just extending the Southern Strategy to include the southwest. Beyond rhetoric, the only actual plans he has proposed are unworkable. The rest of the GOP candidates are so gutless they do not argue with his bigotry, they just claim they can more "anti" than Trump is.
We are witnessing the implosion of a major American political party. The shenanigans of the Bush administration has revealed to the world the GOP's true nature. So much so that their own base doesn't believe in them. Trump is a manifestation of their own doing. No matter how they deal with Trump it's going to hurt them. 
